#summary Weekly meeting reports.
#labels Phase-Design,Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =
Weekly meeting reports of Vietnamese Magic Words development team.  Some meetings do not have report since they are just for reviewing or coding sessions.

= 5th meeting report =
The 5th meeting report had Serge, Yang, Hai, Long, and Duy Anh as attenders.  Contents of our 5th meeting:

== Technical aspects ==

=== Squeak with GNU Gettext ===
Magic Words is now using an ad-hoc method for i18n.  This needs to be standardized and we decided to use gettext.  Serge has added gettext support from Hilaire's DrGeo to [http://www.squeaksource.com/Pharo4Sugar.html Pharo4Sugar Configuration].  We will test it very soon if it works properly.  Yang's in charge.

=== Sound player with Ogg ===
GStreamer package is what we need.  Testing and experimenting are what need to be done very soon.  Yang would take care of this part.

== Tasks and schedule ==
  * Porting Magic Words to Sugar platform
    # Time: 2010/08/08 - 2010/09/15
    # Jobs: Adapting Magic Words to minimalistic hardwares (XO machines) and software (Sugar platform).  These include doing research and making modifications of processing sound, images, file and network handling, optimizing for speed.
    # Leader: Yang (cmpitg)
  * Adaptation of multimedia materials:
    # Time: 2010/08/08 - 2010/11/08
    # Jobs:
      * Developing new Magic Words' kits with appropriate licenses, compatible with open source licenses.  A kit is a collection of: images, sound, Magic Words actors and "magic" words.  Assignees: Long, Sang.
      * Implementing a method for i18n (probably GNU Gettext).  Translating Magic Words into Vietnamese and other languages.  Assignees: Hai, Hiep.
    # Leader: Long
  * Developing collaborative functionalities:
    # Time: 2010/09/15 - 2010/11/08
    # Jobs:
      * Making of DBUS package/classes to add collaborative functionalities.
      * Design to UI (Magic Words actors).
    # Assignees: all.
    # Leaders: Hai, Hiep.
    # Notes: 2010/08/08 to 2010/09/15 would be a period of time for learning and training.

= Development =
  Roadmap of training time and materials for training.
  * Learn how to use Squeak/Smalltalk or Pharo/Smalltalk:
    * SqueakByExample: http://squeakbyexample.org
    * Laser Game tutorial: http://squeak.preeminent.org/tut2007/html/
  * Learn how to use some revision control systems:
    * Squeak/Pharo's Monticello.
    * SVN: http://subversion.apache.org/
  * Tutorial, questions and answers, coding sessions at meetings.